
.B COFFEE



.SH NAME



.PP
Coffee &#45; USB coffee-machine controller



.B SYNOPSIS



.PP
\fBcoffee\fP [\fB-h\fP|\fB-v\fP] [\fB-o\fP \fIorigin\fP] [\fBs\fP \fIquantity\fP] [\fB-t\fP \fItemperature\fP] [\fB-c\fP \fIflavor\fP]



.SH DESCRIPTION



.PP
\fBCoffee\fP is an USB coffee-machine controller. The coffee is
configurable, and one can choose between different origins, temperatures, sugar
quantity, and last but not least, you can have a crepe and even specify its flavor.



.SH OPTIONS



.PP
The following options are supported:



.B \fB-s\fP , \fB--sugar\fP



.PP
Specify the quantity of sugar you want.



.B \fB-t\fP , \fB--temp\fP



.PP
Specify the temperature you want for your coffee.



.PP
\fINote:\fP beware that choosing 'hot' could lead to severe injuries.



.B \fB-o\fP , \fB--origin\fP



.PP
You can choose where your coffee comes from. Possible choices are:
\fIcolombia\fP, \fIethiopia\fP, \fIcarrouf\fP.



.B \fB-c\fP , \fB--crepe\fP



.PP
Specify the crepe flavor you want. Available flavors are \fIrhum\fP and
\fIwhisky\fP for now on.



.B \fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP



.PP
Print a short help text describing the supported command-line options,
and then exit.



.B \fB-v\fP, \fB--version\fP



.PP
Display \fBcoffee\fP version and exit.



.SH LICENSE



.PP
Copyright (c) 2007 by Frederic Culot.



.PP
This software is released under the GNU General Public License. Please
read the COPYING file for more information.



.SH BUGS



.PP
No bugs.
Anyway, if you find any, please send a report to boss@estat.com so that the
author could be fired.



.SH AUTHOR



.PP
\fBFrederic Culot\fP . (Oups, better not mention this!)



.SH SEE ALSO



.PP
couscous(1), sugar(5), rhum(5)
